---
title: "Learning-based Multi-Drone Network Edge Orchestration for Video Analytics"
category: articles
permalink: /articles/2022-05-02-Learning-based-Multi-Drone/
excerpt: "Multi-drone systems operating in Flying Ad Hoc Networks (FANETS) are inherently insecure and require efficient security schemes to defend against cyber-attacks such as e.g., Man-in-the-middle, Replay and Denial of Service attacks."
venue: "2021 17th International Conference on Network and Service Management (CNSM)"
date: 2022-05-02
---

<a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9796706">Download PDF here</a>

Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (a.k.a. drones) with high-resolution video cameras are useful for applications in e.g., public safety and smart farming. Inefficient configurations in drone video analytics applications due to edge network miscon-figurations can result in degraded video quality and inefficient resource utilization. In this paper, we present a novel scheme for offline/online learning-based network edge orchestration to achieve pertinent selection of both network protocols and video properties in multi-drone based video analytics. Our approach features both supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms to enable decision making for selection of both network protocols and video properties in the drones’ pre-takeoff stage i.e., offline stage. In addition, our approach facilitates drone trajectory optimization during drone flights through an online reinforcement learning-based multi-agent deep Q-network algorithm. Evaluation results show how our offline orchestration can suitably choose network protocols (i.e., amongst TCP/HTTP, UDP/RTP, QUIC). We also demonstrate how our unsupervised learning approach outperforms existing learning approaches, and achieves efficient offloading while also improving the network performance (i.e., throughput and round-trip time) by least 25% with satisfactory video quality. Lastly, we show via trace-based simulations, how our online orchestration achieves 91% of oracle baseline network throughput performance with comparable video quality.

Recommended citation: Qu, Chengyi, Rounak Singh, Alicia Esquivel-Morel, and Prasad Calyam. "Learning-based Multi-Drone Network Edge Orchestration for Video Analytics." In IEEE INFOCOM 2022-IEEE Conference on Computer Communications, pp. 1219-1228. IEEE, 2022.
